# The Extensive Reading of 2022-[*MC^2: Rigorous and Efficient Directed Greybox Fuzzing*](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3548606.3560648)

- The **problem** is that most existing directed greybox fuzzers do not provide any theoretical analysis of their performance or optimality.
- The **solution** is $MC^2$, a complexity-theoretic framework to pose directed greybox fuzzing as an oracle-guided search problem where some feedback about the input space (e.g., how close an input is to the target sites) is received by querying an oracle.

As shown in Figure 1, the workflow of $MC^2$ is:

1. Input: corpus, CFG, and targets.
2. $MC^2$
   1. **Noisy Binary Search**: split *input region* and update weights.
   2. **Noisy Counting Oracle**: generate random inputs, Monte Carlo executions, and approximate counts.
3. Output: target reaching inputs.

Some terminologies and notations are explained as below:

- ***Input region***: the target program is denoted as $P$ and its large but finite-sized input space to te explored during fuzzing as $S$. Any subset $I \subseteq S$ is referred as input region $I$.
- ***Control Flow Graph*** and ***targets***: $\Pi$ represents the set of paths in the CFG $(V, E)$ that start from a program entry basic block (BB) and terminate at a program exit BB. For targets $e_t \in E$ , if a path $\pi$ satisfies $\pi \in \Pi$ and $e_{t} \in \pi$ , we say that it reaches a target.
- ***Oracle***: each oracle query can provide at most $c$ bits of information about a given input region, where $c$ is some constant, capturing the information collected from a fuzzer's instrumentation. A fuzzer can potentially use these $c$ bits to reduce the number of inputs it considers by a multiplicative factor of $\frac 1 {2^c}$ .
